[Music]
hello everyone my name is Sarah Dee
cheering speechy welcome to another
video we're gonna get a little technical
so this is how to fix your Dell XPS
display now I'm focusing on this just
because traditionally XPS displays have
been very vibrant that is the nice way
to put it and when you're making content
for the internet whether it's YouTube
Instagram Twitter most people are
viewing your stuff on their phone or
maybe other laptop screens and every
display has their own characteristic so
you want to make sure that you're
starting it off right so this is an
example of what we're looking at here so
this is my Dell XPS basically straight
out of the box supersaturated we're
comparing it with my iPhone 10 art I
mean most people are gonna be viewing
your instagrams Twitter's and YouTube's
on an iPhone maybe on a Mac but also all
the other billion Android devices and
just yeah you want to get this want to
get this figured out I'm gonna let you
in on a little secret this isn't the
first time I've tried to film this video
flash back in a flash back calibrators
will eventually be involved but see Dell
has this app called the Dell premier
color app where you can go in and change
it to srgb rec.709 it'll allow you to
change it to another color space and it
does get less saturated however our app
wasn't working premiere color just
wasn't working it was just staying super
vibrant when I was at Computex I was
talking to Tom the tech chap about this
problem and he was having the same issue
premiere color just wasn't changing
anything and now I realize okay maybe
this is why this thing wasn't working on
my XPS something was just not right well
he actually messaged me I was like oh my
gosh some update fix something and now
the premiere color app works so this is
a long way to just say if you haven't
tried dell from your color app you can
download it for the Microsoft Store
directly from Dells website and that
will solve your base level saturation
problem
so again if you're making internet
content that lives in this weird box
that we're all in
how are you you need to go for the sRGB
color space just cuz that's that's what
should do a little note here if you're
in Dell premiere and there's no visual
change when you're going in between
vibrant and srgb I mean the BIOS update
didn't solve the problem and you're
gonna have to actually uninstall your
graphics drivers and reinstall them so
an app called DD u will help you do that
and I'll link that in the description
below troubleshooting it's fun right
BIOS update make sure you're up today
and then you know you're gonna have to
uninstall drivers welcome to Windows ok
next step now hopefully your laptop is a
little less saturated now we're working
in the sRGB color space now it's time to
talk about calibration you've seen these
crazy-looking calibrators things that
you stick on the displays and it does
the fancy things well we're gonna tell
you how to do that this is the spider 5
Express that's actually on the cheaper
side I think we pay like 120 or some
things we're gonna tell you about a free
software to use that's display count and
you can just pick up a used calibrator
to use because really the price
differences are just about the software
that's included but you can use this
play Cal for free and again all these
things are in the description below
why this was so important for me to
figure out is because I am on so many
different computers all the time so my
main go-to when traveling or just out
and about is my Dell XPS 15 95 70 I also
use this when I'm editing at my
apartment which I need to find a desktop
solution for my apartment cuz like
editing 50% of my videos on a laptop
when I'm like a professional video maker
is kind of like lame and then we have my
lovely PC tower here with the LG ultra
ride which is the least color accurate
of all of my displays we have another LG
monitor over here my assistant editor
uses the razorblade 15 for his go to so
the goal is to have all of these things
working together working on the same
level so when I get sent a project from
the razor blade and I see oh the color
is super magenta what is up with this
and I change it and then I send that to
another person as a youtube link and the
colors all messed up there you're just
editing around in circles and not making
good colors sentences are hard to say
sometimes feel free to use the bundled
software that comes with these things or
you can go all out and get the X ray Pro
i1 or so
thing that's the one you can do within
della premiere color app so let's go
through the steps display Cal three here
we go go to the website and download
display Cal three you can go through the
initial setup for most users the
defaults display of Cal has pre-checked
will work fine navigate to the top to
the Tools menu hover over instrument and
install our gills CMS instrument drivers
argyll then plug in that caller ometer
here we go guys so again go to tools
this time to Corrections then import
profile Corrections from another display
profiling software in those calibration
settings let's set our white point to
6500 K instead of letting our color out
or measure the white balance of our
space 6500 K is what most screens use us
our white points so just yet just use
that if you're a photographer and hey
you're printing out your work in this
place that we called the world and
you're physically giving people things I
think it's more around six six thousand
case so you can just google it but yeah
it's a little bit lower
printing can't imagine and that's it
select calibrate and profile place your
caller ometer over the crosshairs it'll
it'll show on your screen and ensure
there is no space between the device and
the screen it helps to tilt the screen
back a little bit to get more of a snug
fit and you're off you're calibrating
your screen if that didn't take enough
time this will probably take another
hour so go watch some more Sarah D she
YouTube video so you see that comes less
Sarah DG if this video has helped you
make sure to smash that subscribe button
I'm almost a 500k Hey printed the money
I owe her to it so we've made it we did
it together if you have any questions
leave a comment down below and maybe the
Peachy fam we can join together as a
smart collective and help the people out
if they have questions down below make
sure to keep your color calibrator
around because it's actually normal to
recalibrate your screen I would say
every six months or so I hope this
helped out not only you XPS users but
the people out there if you have a razor
blade if you have these laptops that are
putting in beautiful 4k displays what's
the point if it's not color accurate so
I think this is a very
important step to take because the
displays that we're seeing in laptops
are amazing that's why I switched to a
one nose laptop but seriously I love the
display options we have and touch
display I like them a lot 4k touch
display well and for the context of this
video this is primarily if you're
working in the sRGB color space you know
I'm delivering everything I have people
are viewing my content via the internet
so that's what I'm most concerned with
these thousand-dollar LG displays or my
laptop display that's enough but if
you're a color purist and you want to
get into proper color you're making
maybe for the bigger screens that's when
those external displays come in handy
they're gonna be a hefty price tag 10k
20k 30k but that's when you get into
color spaces like BT 2020 and you're
concerned about HDR you're concerned
about all these other things you need a
wider range of color and when when the
color space is this big srgb is like you
know it's like right here so that's
that's what this video is for of course
I'm super excited for the Apple XDR to
get in people's hands to really see how
color accurate it is because it probably
hits a market of people who don't want
to spend those you know thirty thousand
dollars on this displays even though
those displays are actually yes way more
color accurate but hey that's a rabbit
hole for another video right thank you
so much for tuning in let me know if you
like this video hit that subscribe
button down below
weird new videos every single week I've
got a lot of fun ones coming up
subscribe I've already said that okay
you're probably bored at this point
amazing if you made it to this point
stay peachy okay
[Music]
[Applause]
you